# pandas-challenge

The dataset pertaining to this exercise summarizes various metrics of a selection of 15 individual schools, showcasing their budgets, student pool, per capita spending, academic performance, etc. Initially basic analyses was done to clean the data and identify basic metrics such as school type, number of students per school, student performance, by showcasing the average reading and math scores for each school. The budget and per capita spending for each school was also considered for the analysis, and the data was unltimately summarized in a dataframe.

It can be observed from the data that Pena High School seems to be outperforming its peers, with the highest average math and reading scores, even though it has one of the lowest budgets amongst all the schools. And even though it's per capita spending of $609 is just under the mean per capita spend of $620 for all schools, the primary reason for such high student performance can be attributed to the school size. With only 962 students, it can be observed that Pena High School has the highest performing students in math and reading scores due to it being a smaller institution, with a relatively small number of students. 

This argument is also supported by the fact that Holden High School, the smallest school in the dataset with just 427 students, is close runner up in terms of student performance (math and reading scores). It also has the lowest budget amongst all the schools, which may also be the reason why it isn't ahead of Pena High School in terms of student performance.

In conclusion, we can infer that school size and budget are crucial factors in determining student performance. However, school size seems to be a more significant factor, as the smaller schools are outperforming their larger peers. In fact all large schools having enrollment sizes of c.4000+ students have the lowest performance in average reading and math scores.

Further analasys was done to determine the highest and lowest performing schools by % overall passing. This found that the top 5 performing schools were all Charter Schools, and that the bottom 5 performing schools were all District Schools. Therefore in addition to school size, the school type also appears to be a significant factor in overall performance. The analysis also showcases that despite the relatively higher budgets and per capita spend, the larger District Schools were still in the bottom 5 with regards to overall passing students.

However, measures in addition to math and reading scores should be taken into account to more accurately indicate student performance. Furhter analysis is merited to determine the significance of school type and school size on school performance.
